This is the official document for milestone one


1) Executive Summary

What makes an university great? It’s students, it’s faculty, and it’s Administrators. A great university has involved students who contribute to the academic and social life of the university. It also has a passionate faculty that nurture the creative spirits of the student body. And at the administration level you find equally engaged leaders that attentively manage all of the aspects of the University. Our goal with Owl Board is to empower every student, faculty and administrator to work more efficiently and in sync in their quest to make their university a great learning institution. 

Owl board is a social network that allows students and faculty to report issues found in their University directly to the administrators, who will also able to respond and update students on their progress fixing said issues, in real time. Students and faculty will be able to report all issues found on campus (broken equipment, problems with facilities, etc) from the owl board application, empowering them to directly affect the well-being of their learning institutions.  Administrators would also benefit from Owl Board by being able to share some of the administrative responsibility with the student and faculty body. Owl Board would also allow all participants to post upcoming campus events, club meetings, guest speakers and so on: making it very easy for all students to socialize and get involved in their University’s extracurricular activities.

Owl Board is our vision for a more perfect University system. Where all relevant parties (be it students or administrators) will gain the ability to easily communicate with one another and work more in sync towards what is truly important: creating an awesome place for education and the exploration of ideas. We envision a near future in which schools (Universities, colleges, high schools, etc) use Owl Board to socialize with their peers but also contribute to the well being of the institutions they attend, improving the quality of education world-wide. 

2) Competitive analysis

Analyzing  competitive  products  available  today.  Present  competitors’  features  vs. 
planned  ones.  First,  create  a  table  with  key  features  of 
competitors  vs.  yours. Only  at  very  high  level,  5-6  entries  max.  After  the  table, 
you  must  summarize  what are the planned advantages or competitive relationship to what is 

3) Data definition

This section serves as the “dictionary” of your document. It defines main terms, data structures and “items” or “entities” at high or 
logical (not implementation) level (e.g. name, meaning, usage, and NOT how the data is stored in memory) so it is easier to refer  
to  them  in  the  document.  Focus  on  key  terms  (main  data  elements,  actors, types of users etc.) specific for your application 
and not on general well know terms. These   terms   and   their   names   must   be   used   consistently   from   then   on   in
all documents,  user  interface,  in  naming  software  components  and  database  elements etc. In later milestones, you will add more 
implementation details for each item. You will later expand this section with more details.

4) Overview, scenarios and use cases
This  section  describes  the  project  overview  (in  much  more  details)  and  likelihood usage  
scenarios  of  your  product  from  end  users’  perspectives.  Focus  only  on  main use  cases.  Simple  text  format  is  OK  and  
preferable  –  tell  us  a  story  about  who  and how is the application used. Focus on WHAT users do, their skill level, not on HOW the 
system  is  implemented.  You  can  expand  use  cases  provided  in  high  level document in future milestones.

5. Initial list of high-level functional requirements This refers to the high-level functionality that you plan to develop to the best of your knowledge at this point.
Focus on WHAT and not HOW. Keep the users in mind. Develop these functions to be consistent with use cases and requirements above. Number each requirement and use these numbers consistently from now on. For each functionality use 1-5 line description.
1.	Login Page
  a.	Students and Faculty will log-in to the platform with an email address and password.
  b.	Passwords will be stored securely using using a salt and hash method. 
  c.	There will be two account types: One for students who are using the platform and one for administrators who moderate content and handle complaint tickets
2.	Student Home page
  a.	Students will see posts of post from other students.
  b.	Students will be able to comment on posts.
  c.	Students will be able to sort posts by category such as “Campus Life” and “Campus Complaint” or by most recent posts.
  d.	Students will be able to report posts that are inappropriate or flag posts that are in the wrong category. Posts that receive a     certain number of reports will be automatically suspended from public viewing.
3.	Posts 
  a.	Students can make a post from the homepage by choosing the “Make a Post” button.
  b.	Clicking on the Make a Post button will bring up a page that allows the user to edit a text box. 
  c.	Images can be uploaded and displayed with the post. 
  d.	The user will be able to choose one of two tags for their post: “Campus Life” or “Campus Complaint”. 
  e.	Campus life posts will be displayed for the sole purpose of communication with other students.
  f.	Campus Complaints posts will create a complaint ticket that is stored in the database and sent to the administrators. Complaints      can be posted privately or publicly.
4.	Administrator page
  a.	Users with an administrator account will be able to view user complaint tickets.
  b.	User complaint tickets will have a status of “Received,” “In Progress,” or “Resolved.” This status will be reflected on a            complaint post if made public.
  c.	Administrators will be able to update the status of a complaint ticket. 
  d.	Administrators will  be able to view flagged posts and change the category of a post or remove it entirely. 


6. List of non-functional requirements. For example, performance, usability, accessibility, expected load, security requirements, storage, availability, fault tolerance etc.
Number each. When possible, try to quantify these quality attributes.
  1.	Users should be able to access the site from any Mozilla Firefox or Chromium browser.
  2.	Only users with accounts will be able to see posts. There will be no public access to the site.
  3.	The website should be able to run with a maximum time to interact of five seconds with a quarter (approximately 7500 users) of the    student body on concurrently.
  4.	The database should be able to hold the account data of 30,000 FAU students.
  5.	Passwords and user data will be stored securely. Passwords will be stored using salt and hash method.

7. High-level system architecture Lists of main software products, tools, languages and systems to be used, list of core APIs available at this point, supported browsers etc. You also have to decide on which frameworks you will use if any. These provide both user interface, as well as cross-platform and cross browser layout/css.
All external code you plan to use must be listed along with their license.

  Front End:
  The front end will use Bootstrap for the HTML/CSS Framework. AngularJS will be used for	Javascript. The front end IDE will be Visual      Studio Code. 

  Back End:
    The back end will use CakePHP for integration into the MySQL Server. Atom will function as the IDE. 

  Our targeted browsers for support are Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox, which captures 76% of the Desktop market share. Mobile         support is being considered but is not the priority. 



8. Team List student group names, name of Scrum master, product owner and initial roles for each member

Group name: LinkVersity Labs
William Donahue: Scrum Master, Full-Stack Developer
Evander Mendonca: Product Owner, Front End Developer
Raul Tiza: Github Master, Back End Developer
Edgar Cruz: Full-Stack Developer



9) Checklist
For  each  item  below  you  must  answer  with  only  one  of  the  following:  DONE,  ON TRACK  (meaning  it  will  be 
done  on  time,  and  no  issues  perceived)  or  ISSUE  (you have  some  problems,  and  then  define  what  is  the  problem  
with  1-3  lines).  

Reflect these items in your Trello project space:
a)   Team decided on basic means of communications (DONE)
b)   Team found a time slot to meet outside of the class (DONE)
c)   Front and back end team leads chosen(DONE)
d)   Github master chosen (DONE)
e)   Team ready and able to use the chosen back and front-end frameworks (ON TRACK)
f)    Skills of each team member defined and known to all (DONE)
g)   Team   lead   ensured   that   all   team   members   read   the   final   M1   and agree/understand it before submission (DONE)
